Download command on opencrabs.com
First step we start with the onboard mode selection. You can choose quick or advanced onboard. We are going with advanced.
Next step is to set your brain files path. We recommend you hit enter to select the default brain files path.
Here you configure your API provider so OpenCrabs can reply to you. Navigate with arrow up and down to select your favorite provider. We are going with z.ai GLM, so we select z.ai and hit enter.
Next we select the plan type. We choose coding plan and hit enter.
Now paste your API key with cmd or ctrl+v, or cmd or ctrl+shift+v. Hit enter to fetch your model list. Select your model, we are going with gem 5.1, and hit enter.
Now we hit the channels setup. We will set up Telegram. Navigate with arrow, select with space, then hit enter. Paste your bot token with cmd or ctrl+v. Hit enter.
Follow the instructions to copy your chat ID and paste it here. Hit enter, then hit enter again on mention. It will send a confirmation message on Telegram. Hit enter again to move to the next step.
Now we hit STT setup. We are going with local setup. Select local and hit enter. Next, select the size of the model. We are going with tiny. Hit enter to continue.
Move to TTS. Select local and hit enter, then select Ryan and hit enter. It will download the model. Arrow down to navigate to continue, then hit enter.
Now we hit the image setup. Hit space and enter to select both vision and image generation. Then paste your Gemini key and hit enter.
This step you choose if you want OpenCrabs to keep running on background or just TUI. We will choose no daemon to keep it on TUI.
Here you personalize OpenCrabs. The more you write about you, the better. Hit enter to write about you, then hit enter to write about your crab.
Now we will test the chat to see if everything works and crab is alive.
Now we will do a migration from OpenClaw. And that is it. Your OpenCrabs is set and ready to rock.